ref-au/CodingGuidelines.md, before:

# General
- Always use American spelling for all things (don't mix it up with any other spelling versions!)

# Database Tables
- Database table and column names always use snake_case.
- Database table names are always plural.
- Always try to use meaningful names for many-to-many relationship tables instead of the default one generated by Laravel.
- By default, tables are to use timestamps (to record created_at and updated_at times) unless special case is considered.
- Boolean columns should always be prefixed with `is_`, e.g. `is_admin`.
- Date columns should always be suffixed with `date_`, e.g. `date_published`. The only exception is the Laravel auto-generated `created_at` and `updated_at` timestamp columns.
- Always use Laravel's migration tool to record migration actions.

# Database Models
- Keep models stupid, i.e. don't put any logic to the models. Leave models as simply database entry representations, including relationships.

# Application logic
- Keep as much of application logic away from controllers as possible. Controllers should only be concerned with handling requests and translating them to be passed on to logic methods (defined in logic classes).
- HTTP errors should never be thrown from logic classes. It is the task of the controller to throw them back to the client.
- Logic classes should throw Exceptions for fatal failures (e.g. user is not authorized), but not for non=fatal failures (no comments found for post).

# Controllers
- Each page typically has their own controller class (named respectively).
- Page JS variables must be registered through Service called `SitePageService`

# Front end
- HTML, CSS and JS are divided into 3 groups: Page, Component, Library
- *Page* (HTML, CSS and JS) are those files that relates to the specific single website page (e.g. view picquote page, view forum thread page)
- *Component* (HTML, CSS and JS) are page components that can be reused by multiple pages. A bit like library but is meaningful and useful only within the context of the website being built. This component is site specific and custom made.
- *Library* (HTML, CSS and JS) are generic (typically external or 3rd party) components that can be used in multiple pages of the website. Examples include: jQuery, Tooltipster, Handlebars, iCheck, Select2, etc.
- HTML, CSS and JS that belong to the same component should be named identically. This is the only identifier that they belong to the same component.

# Javascript
- Do not write inline JS not write JS code within a template file. This is may be annoying to write and not compressable.
- Page JS are located at `resources/assets/js/page/`
- Component JS are located at `resources/assets/js/component`
- Library JS are located at `resources/assets/js/lib`
- Page JS variables that need to be taken from the backend server will be passed in by a Service (`SitePageService`) in a variable called `PageArgs`
- Each page should only have 1 combined and minified JS, which can consist of Page JS, Component JS and Library JS, on top of the single common/shared JS file
- All JS code within a file must be isolated as: `(function () {  ...code...  })()`. This is to prevent scope clashes and to ensure that exported interfaces/variables are explicit and consciously done.
- Exported JS interfaces and variables should be contained within a single `window` variable (e.g. `window.Timeline`). This is typically only relevant when writing Component JS that may have to talk to one another and be used by Page JS.

# CSS
- Always use BEM and limit nesting to at most 3 levels deep.
- Page CSS are located at `resources/assets/sass/page/`
- Component CSS are located at `resources/assets/sass/component`
- Library CSS are located at `resources/assets/sass/lib`
- Each page should *only have 1* combined and minified CSS, which can consist of Page CSS, Component CSS and Library CSS, on top of the single common/shared CSS file

# HTML
- Classes and IDs should always use kebab-case (or spinal-case, if you prefer to call it that way).
- Classes that are used for JS manipulations should be prefixed with `js-`. Exceptions would be classes that defines behavior set by CSS, e.g. `hidden`.
- Page HTML are located at `resources/views/page`
- Component HTML are located at `resources/views/component`

Commit message:

Discarded the default first page generated by Laravel framework. Added first few files to define template importing structure. Added browser CSS defaults reset.

ref-au/CodingGuidelines.md, after:

# General
- Always use American spelling for all things (don't mix it up with any other spelling versions!)

# Database Tables
- Database table and column names always use `snake_case`.
- Database table names are always plural.
- Always try to use meaningful names for many-to-many relationship tables instead of the default one generated by Laravel.
- By default, tables are to use timestamps (to record created_at and updated_at times) unless special case is considered.
- Boolean columns should always be prefixed with `is_`, e.g. `is_admin`.
- Date columns should always be suffixed with `date_`, e.g. `date_published`. The only exception is the Laravel auto-generated `created_at` and `updated_at` timestamp columns.
- Always use Laravel's migration tool to record migration actions.

# Database Models
- Keep models stupid, i.e. don't put any logic to the models. Leave models as simply database entry representations, including relationships.

# PHP
- Always use `camelCase` when writing method and variable names and `CamelCaps` for class names

# Application logic
- Keep as much of application logic away from controllers as possible. Controllers should only be concerned with handling requests and translating them to be passed on to logic methods (defined in logic classes).
- HTTP errors should never be thrown from logic classes. It is the task of the controller to throw them back to the client.
- Logic classes should throw Exceptions for fatal failures (e.g. user is not authorized), but not for non=fatal failures (no comments found for post).

# Controllers
- Each page typically has their own controller class (named respectively).
- Page JS variables must be registered through Service called `SitePageService`

# Front end
- HTML, CSS and JS are divided into 3 groups: Page, Component, Library
- *Page* (HTML, CSS and JS) are those files that relates to the specific single website page (e.g. view picquote page, view forum thread page)
- *Component* (HTML, CSS and JS) are page components that can be reused by multiple pages. A bit like library but is meaningful and useful only within the context of the website being built. This component is site specific and custom made.
- *Library* (HTML, CSS and JS) are generic (typically external or 3rd party) components that can be used in multiple pages of the website. Examples include: jQuery, Tooltipster, Handlebars, iCheck, Select2, etc.
- HTML, CSS and JS that belong to the same component should be named identically. This is the only identifier that they belong to the same component.

# Javascript
- Do not write inline JS not write JS code within a template file. This is may be annoying to write and not compressable.
- Page JS are located at `resources/assets/js/page/`
- Component JS are located at `resources/assets/js/component`
- Library JS are located at `resources/assets/js/lib`
- Page JS variables that need to be taken from the backend server will be passed in by a Service (`SitePageService`) in a variable called `PageArgs`
- Each page should only have 1 combined and minified JS, which can consist of Page JS, Component JS and Library JS, on top of the single common/shared JS file
- All JS code within a file must be isolated as: `(function () {  ...code...  })()`. This is to prevent scope clashes and to ensure that exported interfaces/variables are explicit and consciously done.
- Exported JS interfaces and variables should be contained within a single `window` variable (e.g. `window.Timeline`). This is typically only relevant when writing Component JS that may have to talk to one another and be used by Page JS.

# CSS
- Always use BEM and limit nesting to at most 3 levels deep
- Avoid using named-colors other than if they are defined in th SCSS file. For neatness, use lowercase letters for colors.
- Page CSS are located at `resources/assets/sass/page/`
- Component CSS are located at `resources/assets/sass/component`
- Library CSS are located at `resources/assets/sass/lib`
- Each page should *only have 1* combined and minified CSS, which can consist of Page CSS, Component CSS and Library CSS, on top of the single common/shared CSS file

# HTML
- Classes and IDs should always use `kebab-case` (or `spinal-case`, if you prefer to call it that way).
- Classes that are used for JS manipulations should be prefixed with `js-`. Exceptions would be classes that defines behavior set by CSS, e.g. `hidden`.
- Template variables are treated as if they are PHP variable, hence use `camelCase`.
- Page HTML are located at `resources/views/page`
- Component HTML are located at `resources/views/component`
